select lower, upper, rapad, , rapad, instr, subst, replace
how do you imlmenmt if contion in MySQL 


Q. display emname, job abd cinnusin uf cinnns is null shiw ub stribf comimm foubd null if its zero shiw commiion is 0, else show the commib 
'

round ceal, floor power sqrt sing dbs mod,


two reasons for group. 
1. when i want to iplent function
2. when i want to impment function as chart,

where vs havinf. 
for rows for goups


Q. display each job wish m sal on for those dep memenber where 4 or more 


how many sub case can be wrttin for obe maib or outer query
oracale ->256
sqk server ->35
mysl-> no define withib stack memeory


stack -> infrat with hardisk
heap -> stack


sub queasris should be used when you want use group function with single row

Q. display the emp name, job,, slary , who is having avg salary

Q. display enp name salary of all thoise ehere ataking more sal than highest sal taken by cleark 

Q. display ename, job, of all those who are directly reporting to president

Q. display ename, jobm sal, of all those who are taking sal than higest sal of any preson working in dept no 30

Q, display enmpno, emp name, dept name, jobm sal, and grade of all post who are artaking more salrey than the highest sal reicned by any salesman


single row muilte subq

all the sub quer which are exceted till now are scalled as single row subq , bc inner q was reatian only one recort hoever inner q start eruting more than one record than if its called as muitlform sub q

Q. display dep name , empname, sal of those who are recing the highest sal, in the respetuice deptno

Q. display the dept no and avg salary of the that dept which is recing the highest avg salary,

Q. display deptno, dept name, and location of those department wicha re present in dept take but bo emp is present ib emo table 

Q. display ename deptno, dname . loc form emp of all those mep who are line taking more sal than avg sal of therir dept

Q. display emp no, emp name and job of all those whi have atlas one subordinate(JR) working form him (BOSS)

SQL subset commnet

DDL (data def) -> create alre deop truncaite

DCL (data control lang) -> grant revode 

Duplicate tables , temp tables viewm synom index



5 rules constraint
1. not null
2. nique
3. primary key
4. foregin key
5. check ( name, upper case, only, sal is min soo stc)
compostire primary key -> sombo primar key


good praeacite to create tabvle 

create table student(
stno int constrina SI_KEY primary key,

if you dont give name to constraint the system gernates a name and assign it
it helps to drop the partuculart key

how do you see constana applied to table

capital letters is given preferabc bc when you sort capital letters come first

create table DPT(.....
..........



if you wanna reomce praren record form parent table while child recor wtill exist

while making id --> on dewlete scase danger
->>. on dlete set null -< good

oracle ->>> meta data --dictonary
select * from DICt, ( chows data from meta data)
to see cosmntian appied on a table
 select constiantname form user_constant whose tablename = 'amp'(yourtbalename)


MYSQQL equlent

select
	table_name as view name
table_comment as 'destpton ' frpm 
information_sheme.tannles
where 
table_shcleme = 'informati_scheme';


MySQL ewulent
select constainf_name
cosnttait_type
from inorma.schemetable.contain
where
tablename= 'amp'
and table_sem = 'cdac'l


table with autp incremne feature
create table procut(
producit id int auo_incrmenet


create table emp1 as select form emp
this will copy the table abd woks dibe but wont have the constraints

inset into emp2 select * fgrom emp


to get cosntrain also
get to lear everthing aleter column
two features 
1.you can ass amuile cilumn ib obe go
2, cab vrigb coumn aby where not just at kast


uysing cgecj constrain -> rules (examples)



things to learn 
drop cmd, turniacter , temp table, views, synmie, index

temple table

vreate tempeltable temp(
eo 

i mean jyust syntzx and example of it



it enhances the performance when you have really big databse 
learn about trick drop cmd -> check notes

what is diff delet and  rutnacte 
two diff ->>
roll back possible in delete
-> only value wil go in delete

lofically gone --> delete
physical gone -- turnaicte


